Instructions for CaptionCreator.jsx 

An After Effects script to create a vtt captions file.

Install the script as a dockable panel or run it when you need it.
https://news.productioncrate.com/how-to-install-scripts-to-after-effects-windows-and-mac/


Usage:
Start by creating a text file from a Storyboard. 
Each line of text will become a keyframe on a text layer named Captions. 

When the After Effects project is ready, run the CaptionCreator script. 
It will open a dockable panel and fits nicely in the right column.

Select the Import Captions button to open the text file you created for the video. 
You can also open a .vtt captions file that was already built for the video. 

The script will open a dialog panel with a list of compositions to choose from. 
Select a compositon to continue. 
The script will create a new text layer and generate keyframes on the composition you selected.
This can usually take under a minute to populate the keyframes. 

The text layer simulates how the final captions will look. 
Adjust the keyframes to sync the captions with the audio. 

You can edit typos or change the text on the screen. 
Make sure you are on the keyframe you want to change or you will create a new keyframe. 
If the line of text is long, you can split the text into multiple lines. 

When the captions are ready, click the Save VTT button in the script panel. 
You will be able to select the folder and file name for the vtt captions file. 
The vtt filename should match the video it is for.  
The vtt files and final video should be kept in the same folder. 
An alert box will let know if there were any errors or that the .vtt file has been created. 

Remember to hide the Captions layer so it isn't visible on the exported video. 
Or leave it visible to bake the captions into the video. Your call. 

The vtt files and final video should be kept in the same folder. 

Videos can have multiple caption files. 
Additional caption layers can be added to the composition to create captions for other languages. 
For example. Spanish text can be synced with an English audio track. 
If English and Spanish vtt files are included with a video, the viewer can select either one.

When you have multiple caption layers and want to export a specific language. 
Hide the extra language layers so that only the language you want to save as a vtt file is visible. 
If you forget to hide extra layers, you will get a dialog box to select which caption layer. 

If you want to rename the Captions text layer make sure the name begins with the word Captions. 
The script finds the caption layers by its name. 
Example: Captions_en, Captions_es
